# ST10448051LukeCowley
IMAD5112 Assignment 1

<u>1. Purpose</u>

The purpose of the application is for young inspiring students to be
able to input their age or anyone else's age into the application and it
will be able to tell them if a famous figure passed away at the user's
inputted age. The limitation is that the application must have that age
in its database otherwise it will tell the user that no one passed away
at that age. The use case for the application is so that young students
can learn all about the famous figure who passed away at a certain age
in a fun and exciting manner. The app also will tell the students what
that famous figure did to become famous so if the student does not know
the person it can teach them all about them.

<u>2. Design Considerations</u>

I feel like my application is designed in a way that makes it easy for
young students to use and understand. The application's name is at the
top with a beautiful picture of a city skyline which I feel shows what
some famous figures have done and shows how large the world is and how
many famous figures there are in the world I placed it at the top as
that is generally the first thing that a user would see it is also a
good use of used space. When they enter an age that picture will
disappear and will show a picture of the famous figure. Below that is
where the user will enter the age, they want the application to look up.
Just below that is a button that when it is pushed will tell the
application to look up in the database and see if there was a famous
figure that passed away at the inputted age. The button on the right
will remove whatever was inputted in the age section so if the user
wants to enter another age, they can easily just push the clear button
and that will also clear any results the application has generated.
Below that is where the application will display the name and age of the
famous figure who passed away, it will also display â€œthere are no known
famous figures that passed away at that ageâ€ if there is no famous
figure that passed away at that age in its database. Below that is where
it will display the description of the famous figure it will also
display what they did to become a famous figure. I feel like I have only
included the necessary interface elements for a user to interact with
the application. The application has all the essential functionality the
students need to learn about famous figures. The application is only
using text that should be legible and easy to read by all users. The
spacing of the application in my opinion is not too crowded and does not
have too much space around any of the key functions making it feel too
busy. The buttons and the age input sections are in the middle of the
screen and should not be too hard for an adult to reach with one hand
but will be hard for a young student to reach with one hand they will
have to use two hands. It should also be noted that it would also be
easy for a left or right-hand person to use.

<u>3. GitHub and GitHub Actions</u>

1\. Create a New GitHub Repository:

Go to the GitHub website (https://github.com/) and sign in to your
account.

Click on the "+" icon in the top right corner and select "New
repository".

Give your repository a name (your student number and name â€“ in one
word), add a description (use IMAD5112 Assignment 1) and choose public.

Click on the "Create repository" button.

2\. Initialise the Repository with a README File:

After creating the repository, you'll see an option to "Initialize this
repository with a README". Check this option to create a README file.

Click on the "Create repository" button to finalize the creation of the
repository.

3\. Commit and Push Your Project Files to the GitHub Repository:

In Android Studio, go to VCS (Version Control System) -> Import into
Version Control -> Share Project on GitHub.

Log in to your GitHub account if prompted, and select the repository you
created earlier.

Click on the "Share" button to push your project files to the GitHub
repository.

4\. Regularly Commit and Push Your Code as You Make Progress:

After the initial push, continue making changes to your project in
Android Studio.

Whenever you make significant progress or changes, commit your changes
locally in Android Studio using VCS -> Commit Changes.

Once committed, push your changes to the GitHub repository using VCS ->
Git -> Push.

<u>4. Link to YouTube video</u>

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7gbI743EPRI>

<u>5. Reference List</u>

OpenAI. (2020). ChatGPT. \[online\]. Available at:
<https://chat.openai.com/> (Accessed: April 4, 2024)
